---
layout: post
title: Exaile 4.0.0 released!
---

More than four years after the last Exaile 3.4.5 release, we're happy to
announce that Exaile 4.0.0 "[Perfect is the enemy of good](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Perfect_is_the_enemy_of_good)"
has been released!

### About the codename

It has been a *really* long time since the previous release, and if we're
honest a 4.0 release should have happened a long time ago. Exaile continues to
be a mature, stable audio player, and continues to do the things we want it 
to do, well. Thank you to our longtime users who have continued to report bugs
and make fixes.

We're really excited about a new capability to automatically build releases
without developer intervention, and we expect that future releases will be
much more frequent as Exaile development occurs.

### About the release

Visually, longtime users will recognize Exaile 4.0.0 as the latest iteration
of Exaile, as it will feel very similar to previous releases. However,
internally 4.0.0 is a significant change from 3.4.5! The biggest change
in Exaile 4 is that it uses GTK+ 3 and GStreamer 1. Existing users are
strongly recommended to upgrade because GStreamer 0.10, used in earlier
versions, is unmaintained and may contain security issues.

There are far too many improvements and bugfixes to mention here. Please
refer to our [4.0.0 Release notes](https://github.com/exaile/exaile/wiki/Exaile-4.0-release-notes) on Github for details.

Download the [latest Exaile releases on Github](https://github.com/exaile/exaile/releases).